feat: additional improvements to cursorrules and claudemd (#1233)
recallnet/js-recall: CLAUDE.md

   - Performance requirements (response times, throughput)
   - Type safety requirements
   - Testing requirements
   - Documentation needs

4. **Request Explanations**: Ask Claude to explain trade-offs and design decisions.

## Critical Rules Summary

### Never Do These

- ❌ Use `any` type (use proper type guards or generics)
- ❌ Fetch all records then filter in memory (use SQL WHERE clauses)
- ❌ Create unbounded queries (always use LIMIT)
- ❌ Mix authentication patterns (stick to one per endpoint)
- ❌ Log sensitive data (passwords, API keys, PII)
- ❌ Skip tests for critical paths (auth, payments, trading)

### Always Do These

- ✅ Use TypeScript strict mode
- ✅ Add indexes for foreign keys and WHERE clause columns
- ✅ Validate environment variables on startup
- ✅ Use structured JSON logging with request IDs
- ✅ Document breaking changes in PR descriptions
- ✅ Run linter and tests before marking tasks complete

## Quick Reference

### Commands

```bash
# Development
pnpm dev              # Start all apps
pnpm build            # Build everything
pnpm lint             # Check code style
pnpm format           # Auto-fix formatting
pnpm test             # Run tests

# Database (API)

> pnpm --filter api db:gen-migrations  # Generate migration

Author: standardized in [585c5a5](https://github.com/recallnet/js-recall/pull/1233/commits/585c5a5fd60cd3cd5577ce82265c6a4f7c482a9f)

- Complex calculations happen in SQL, not JavaScript
- Aggregations use database functions (`SUM()`, `AVG()`, `COUNT()`), not array methods
- Sorting happens in SQL (`ORDER BY`), not JavaScript `.sort()`
- Use `DISTINCT ON` with proper indexes for latest-record queries
- Data consistency is enforced by database constraints, not application validation alone
- Performance optimization starts with proper indexes and query design
- Never fetch all records to filter/aggregate in memory - use SQL WHERE/GROUP BY/HAVING clauses

### Type Safety Without Compromise

- **Zero tolerance for `any` types** in production code
- All functions must have explicit return types (never rely on inference)
- Prefer named types/interfaces over inline type definitions
- All external data must be validated at runtime using type guards or Zod schemas
- Database types must be properly typed in TypeScript
- Prefer compile-time safety over runtime assertions when possible

### Performance Through Design

- Every list endpoint must support pagination (no unlimited queries)
- Caching decisions require human review (consider platform caching like Vercel first)
- Every query must have appropriate indexes

> - N+1 queries (fetching a list then making separate queries per item) must be avoided - use joins or batch fetching instead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid situations where the number of database queries scales linearly (e.g. fetching a list then making separate queries per item). Use joins or batch fetching instead
```

Author: Switched here: [2699db5](https://github.com/recallnet/js-recall/pull/1233/commits/2699db5a92529c81774da3dd8cb14b572ca3c359)
